tgui/README.md, before:

# tgui

## Introduction

tgui is a robust user interface framework of /tg/station.

tgui is very different from most UIs you will encounter in BYOND programming. It
is heavily reliant on Javascript and web technologies as opposed to DM. If you
are familiar with NanoUI (a library which can be found on almost every other
SS13 codebase), tgui should be fairly easy to pick up.

## Learn tgui

People come to tgui from different backgrounds and with different learning
styles. Whether you prefer a more theoretical or a practical approach, we hope
you’ll find this section helpful.

### Practical Tutorial

If you are completely new to frontend and prefer to **learn by doing**, start
with our [practical tutorial](docs/tutorial-and-examples.md).

### Guides

This project uses React. Take your time to read the guide:

- [React guide](https://react.dev/learn)

If you were already familiar with an older, Ractive-based tgui, and want to
translate concepts between old and new tgui, read this
[interface conversion guide](docs/converting-old-tgui-interfaces.md).

### Other Documentation

- [Component Reference](docs/component-reference.md) - UI building blocks
- [Using TGUI and Byond API for custom HTML popups](docs/tgui-for-custom-html-popups.md)
- [Chat Embedded Components](docs/chat-embedded-components.md)
- [Writing Tests](docs/writing-tests.md)

## Pre-requisites

If you are using the tooling provided in this repo, everything is included! Feel
free to skip this step.

However, if you want finer control over the installation or build process, you
will need these:

- [Node v22.11+](https://nodejs.org/en/download/)
  - **LTS** release is recommended instead of latest
  - **DO NOT install Chocolatey if Node installer asks you to!**
- [Yarn v4.5.1+](https://yarnpkg.com/getting-started/install)
  - You can run `npm install -g yarn` to install it.

## Usage

**Via provided cmd scripts (Windows)**:

- `bin/tgui-build` - Build tgui in production mode and run a full suite of code
  checks.
- `bin/tgui-dev` - Launch a development server.
  - `bin/tgui-dev --reload` - Reload byond cache once.
  - `bin/tgui-dev --debug` - Run server with debug logging enabled.
  - `bin/tgui-dev --no-hot` - Disable hot module replacement (helps when doing
    development on IE8).
- `bin/tgui-sonar` - Analyze code with SonarQube.
- `bin/tgui-bench` - Run benchmarks.

> To open a CMD or PowerShell window in any open folder, right click **while
> holding Shift** on any free space in the folder, then click on either
> `Open command window here` or `Open PowerShell window here`.

**Via Juke Build (cross-platform)**:

- `tools/build/build tgui` - Build tgui in production mode.
- `tools/build/build tgui-dev` - Build tgui in production mode.
  - `tools/build/build tgui-dev --reload` - Reload byond cache once.
  - `tools/build/build tgui-dev --debug` - Run server with debug logging
    enabled.
  - `tools/build/build tgui-dev --no-hot` - Disable hot module replacement
    (helps when doing development on IE8).
- `tools/build/build tgui-lint` - Show (and auto-fix) problems with the code.
- `tools/build/build tgui-sonar` - Analyze code with SonarQube.
- `tools/build/build tgui-test` - Run unit and integration tests.
- `tools/build/build tgui-analyze` - Run a bundle analyzer.
- `tools/build/build tgui-bench` - Run benchmarks.
- `tools/build/build tgui-clean` - Clean up tgui folder.

> With Juke Build, you can run multiple targets together, e.g.:
>
> ```
> tools/build/build tgui tgui-lint tgui-tsc tgui-test
> ```

**Via Yarn (cross-platform)**:

Run `yarn install` once to install tgui dependencies.

- `yarn tgui:build` - Build tgui in production mode.
  - `yarn tgui:build [options]` - Build tgui with custom webpack options.
- `yarn tgui:dev` - Launch a development server.
  - `yarn tgui:dev --reload` - Reload byond cache once.
  - `yarn tgui:dev --debug` - Run server with debug logging enabled.
  - `yarn tgui:dev --no-hot` - Disable hot module replacement (helps when doing
    development on IE8).
- `yarn tgui:lint` - Show (and auto-fix) problems with the code.
- `yarn tgui:sonar` - Analyze code with SonarQube.
- `yarn tgui:tsc` - Check code with TypeScript compiler.
- `yarn tgui:test` - Run unit and integration tests.
- `yarn tgui:analyze` - Run a bundle analyzer.
- `yarn tgui:bench` - Run benchmarks.
- `yarn tgfont:build` - Build icon fonts.
- `yarn tgui-polyfill:build` - Build polyfills. You need to run it when updating
  any of the static (numbered) polyfills.

## Important Memo

Remember to always run a full build of tgui before submitting a PR, because it
comes with the full suite of CI checks, and runs much faster on your computer
than on GitHub servers. It will save you some time and possibly a few broken
commits! Address the issues that are reported by the tooling as much as
possible, because maintainers will beat you with a ruler and force you to
address them anyway (unless it's a false positive or something unfixable).

## Troubleshooting

**Development server is crashing**

Make sure path to your working directory does not contain spaces, special
unicode characters, exclamation marks or any other special symbols. If so, move
codebase to a location which does not contain these characters.

This is a known issue with Yarn (and some other tools, like Webpack), and fix is
going to happen eventually.

**Development server doesn't find my BYOND cache!**

This happens if your Documents folder in Windows has a custom location, for
example in `E:\Libraries\Documents`. Development server tries its best to find
this non-standard location (searches for a Windows Registry key), but it can
fail. You have to run the dev server with an additional environmental variable,
with a full path to BYOND cache.

```
BYOND_CACHE="E:/Libraries/Documents/BYOND/cache"
```

**Webpack errors out with some cryptic messages!**

> Example: `No template for dependency: PureExpressionDependency`

Webpack stores its cache on disk since tgui 4.3, and it is very sensitive to
build configuration. So if you update webpack, or share the same cache directory
between development and production build, it will start hallucinating.

To fix this kind of problem, run `bin/tgui --clean` and try again.

## Dev Server Tools

When developing with `tgui-dev-server`, you will have access to certain
development only features.

**Debug Logs.** When running server via `bin/tgui --dev --debug`, server will
print debug logs and time spent on rendering. Use this information to optimize
your code, and try to keep re-renders below 16ms.

**Kitchen Sink.** Press `F12` or click the green bug to open the KitchenSink
interface. This interface is a playground to test various tgui components.

**Layout Debugger.** Press `F11` to toggle the _layout debugger_. It will show
outlines of all tgui elements, which makes it easy to understand how everything
comes together, and can reveal certain layout bugs which are not normally
visible.

## Browser Developer Tools

To debug TGUI interfaces with browser-style developer tools, there exists a
utility that Microsoft bundles with Windows called IEChooser/F12 to debug any
Internet Explorer/Trident-using interface, which BYOND uses.

This provides invaluable tools such as a local console, a DOM viewer, an
interactive debugger, and more.

You can access the `IEChooser.exe` by pressing <kbd>Win + R</kbd>, then typing
`f12`, then pressing enter. To manually go there: 64-bit version that we use is
located at `%windir%\SysWOW64\F12\IEChooser.exe`. There's also a 32-bit one in
`system32\`.

Simply launch the application after you've opened a TGUI window, and choose the
.html name. This is likely to be something like `tgui-window-1`. There's a
refresh button in the top right.

Unfortunately, it seems this program doesn't have a new target chooser if your
window is fully closed so you'll need to restart it if it disconnects from the
window.

## Project Structure

- `/packages` - Each folder here represents a self-contained Node module.
- `/packages/common` - Helper functions that are used throughout all packages.
- `/packages/tgui/index.js` - Application entry point.
- `/packages/tgui/components` - Basic UI building blocks.
- `/packages/tgui/interfaces` - Actual in-game interfaces.
- `/packages/tgui/layouts` - Root level UI components, that affect the final
  look and feel of the browser window. These hold various window elements, like
  the titlebar and resize handlers, and control the UI theme.
- `/packages/tgui/routes.js` - This is where tgui decides which interface to
  pull and render.
- `/packages/tgui/styles/main.scss` - CSS entry point.
- `/packages/tgui/styles/functions.scss` - Useful SASS functions. Stuff like
  `lighten`, `darken`, `luminance` are defined here.
- `/packages/tgui/styles/atomic` - Atomic CSS classes. These are very simple,
  tiny, reusable CSS classes which you can use and combine to change appearance
  of your elements. Keep them small.
- `/packages/tgui/styles/components` - CSS classes which are used in UI
  components. These stylesheets closely follow the
  [BEM](https://en.bem.info/methodology/) methodology.
- `/packages/tgui/styles/interfaces` - Custom stylesheets for your interfaces.
  Add stylesheets here if you really need a fine control over your UI styles.
- `/packages/tgui/styles/layouts` - Layout-related styles.
- `/packages/tgui/styles/themes` - Contains themes that you can use in tgui.
  Each theme must be registered in `/packages/tgui/index.js` file.

## License

Source code is covered by /tg/station's parent license - **AGPL-3.0** (see the
main [README](../README.md)), unless otherwise indicated.

Some files are annotated with a copyright header, which explicitly states the
copyright holder and license of the file. Most of the core tgui source code is
available under the **MIT** license.

The Authors retain all copyright to their respective work here submitted.

Commit message:

516 only tgui (#90397)
## About The Pull Request
oooooh boy, have I been waiting on this PR. It was one of the first
things I tried when I got into 516 alpha. With this, we shuffle off all
the polyfills that makes TGUI build like it's still on IE.

TGUI should look and function exactly the same.

1. updated webpack build targets
2. removed polyfills
3. removed trident references
4. removed trident-only storage
5. updated documentation
6. bumped yarn (sorry, this makes the file diff huge but it seems to be
required)
7. fixed some prettier warnings
## Why It's Good For The Game
TGUI builds without restraint. Smaller bundle size, smaller overhead
## Changelog

:cl:
add: TGUI is now v6! No more internet explorer. All gloves are off, it's
running edge under the hood now. Report any issues to the github,
please. Yes, I look!
/:cl:

tgui/README.md, after:

# tgui

## Introduction

tgui is a robust user interface framework of /tg/station.

tgui is very different from most UIs you will encounter in BYOND programming. It
is heavily reliant on Javascript and web technologies as opposed to DM. If you
are familiar with NanoUI (a library which can be found on almost every other
SS13 codebase), tgui should be fairly easy to pick up.

## Learn tgui

People come to tgui from different backgrounds and with different learning
styles. Whether you prefer a more theoretical or a practical approach, we hope
you’ll find this section helpful.

### Practical Tutorial

If you are completely new to frontend and prefer to **learn by doing**, start
with our [practical tutorial](docs/tutorial-and-examples.md).

### Guides

This project uses React. Take your time to read the guide:

- [React guide](https://react.dev/learn)

If you were already familiar with an older, Ractive-based tgui and want to
translate concepts between old and new tgui, read this
[interface conversion guide](docs/converting-old-tgui-interfaces.md).

### Other Documentation

- [Component Reference](docs/component-reference.md) - UI building blocks
- [Tgui Core](https://github.com/tgstation/tgui-core) - The component library for tgui.
- [Using TGUI and Byond API for custom HTML popups](docs/tgui-for-custom-html-popups.md)
- [Chat Embedded Components](docs/chat-embedded-components.md)
- [Writing Tests](docs/writing-tests.md)

## Pre-requisites

If you are using the tooling provided in this repo, everything is included! Feel
free to skip this step.

However, if you want finer control over the installation or build process, you
will need these:

- [Node v22.11+](https://nodejs.org/en/download/)
  - **LTS** release is recommended instead of latest
  - **DO NOT install Chocolatey if Node installer asks you to!**
- [Yarn v4.8.1+](https://yarnpkg.com/getting-started/install)
  - Yarn is normally installed with corepack.

## Usage

**Via provided cmd scripts (Windows)**:

- `bin/tgui-build` - Build tgui in production mode and run a full suite of code
  checks.
- `bin/tgui-dev` - Launch a development server.
  - `bin/tgui-dev --reload` - Reload byond cache once.
  - `bin/tgui-dev --debug` - Run server with debug logging enabled.
  - `bin/tgui-dev --no-hot` - Disable hot module replacement (helps when doing
    development on IE8).
- `bin/tgui-sonar` - Analyze code with SonarQube.
- `bin/tgui-bench` - Run benchmarks.

> To open a CMD or PowerShell window in any open folder, right click **while
> holding Shift** on any free space in the folder, then click on either
> `Open command window here` or `Open PowerShell window here`.

**Via Juke Build (cross-platform)**:

- `tools/build/build tgui` - Build tgui in production mode.
- `tools/build/build tgui-dev` - Build tgui in production mode.
  - `tools/build/build tgui-dev --reload` - Reload byond cache once.
  - `tools/build/build tgui-dev --debug` - Run server with debug logging
    enabled.
  - `tools/build/build tgui-dev --no-hot` - Disable hot module replacement
    (helps when doing development on IE8).
- `tools/build/build tgui-lint` - Show (and auto-fix) problems with the code.
- `tools/build/build tgui-sonar` - Analyze code with SonarQube.
- `tools/build/build tgui-test` - Run unit and integration tests.
- `tools/build/build tgui-analyze` - Run a bundle analyzer.
- `tools/build/build tgui-bench` - Run benchmarks.
- `tools/build/build tgui-clean` - Clean up tgui folder.

> With Juke Build, you can run multiple targets together, e.g.:
>
> ```
> tools/build/build tgui tgui-lint tgui-tsc tgui-test
> ```

**Via Yarn (cross-platform)**:

Run `yarn install` once to install tgui dependencies.

- `yarn tgui:build` - Build tgui in production mode.
  - `yarn tgui:build [options]` - Build tgui with custom webpack options.
- `yarn tgui:dev` - Launch a development server.
  - `yarn tgui:dev --reload` - Reload byond cache once.
  - `yarn tgui:dev --debug` - Run server with debug logging enabled.
  - `yarn tgui:dev --no-hot` - Disable hot module replacement (helps when doing
    development on IE8).
- `yarn tgui:lint` - Show (and auto-fix) problems with the code.
- `yarn tgui:sonar` - Analyze code with SonarQube.
- `yarn tgui:tsc` - Check code with TypeScript compiler.
- `yarn tgui:test` - Run unit and integration tests.
- `yarn tgui:analyze` - Run a bundle analyzer.
- `yarn tgui:bench` - Run benchmarks.
- `yarn tgfont:build` - Build icon fonts.
- `yarn tgui-polyfill:build` - Build polyfills. You need to run it when updating
  any of the static (numbered) polyfills.

## Important Memo

Remember to always run a full build of tgui before submitting a PR, because it
comes with the full suite of CI checks, and runs much faster on your computer
than on GitHub servers. It will save you some time and possibly a few broken
commits! Address the issues that are reported by the tooling as much as
possible, because maintainers will beat you with a ruler and force you to
address them anyway (unless it's a false positive or something unfixable).

## Troubleshooting

**Development server isn't attaching to the game**

Make sure that you have a tgui window open before you run the dev server. Then,
once it's running, you may need to press F5 to refresh the page.

**Development server is crashing**

Make sure path to your working directory does not contain spaces, special
unicode characters, exclamation marks or any other special symbols. If so, move
codebase to a location which does not contain these characters.

This is a known issue with Yarn (and some other tools, like Webpack), and fix is
going to happen eventually.

**Development server doesn't find my BYOND cache!**

This happens if your Documents folder in Windows has a custom location, for
example in `E:\Libraries\Documents`. Development server tries its best to find
this non-standard location (searches for a Windows Registry key), but it can
fail. You have to run the dev server with an additional environmental variable,
with a full path to BYOND cache.

```
BYOND_CACHE="E:/Libraries/Documents/BYOND/cache"
```

**Webpack errors out with some cryptic messages!**

> Example: `No template for dependency: PureExpressionDependency`

Webpack stores its cache on disk since tgui 4.3, and it is very sensitive to
build configuration. So if you update webpack, or share the same cache directory
between development and production build, it will start hallucinating.

To fix this kind of problem, run `bin/tgui --clean` and try again.

## Dev Server Tools

When developing with `tgui-dev-server`, you will have access to certain
development only features.

**Debug Logs.** When running server via `bin/tgui --dev --debug`, server will
print debug logs and time spent on rendering. Use this information to optimize
your code, and try to keep re-renders below 16ms.

**Kitchen Sink.** Press `F12` or click the green bug to open the KitchenSink
interface. This interface is a playground to test various tgui components.

**Layout Debugger.** Press `F11` to toggle the _layout debugger_. It will show
outlines of all tgui elements, which makes it easy to understand how everything
comes together, and can reveal certain layout bugs which are not normally
visible.

## Browser Developer Tools

WebView2 is chromium based, so you can access the dev tools much easier than its
predecessor. Simply go to debug tab in your stat panel and click "Allow Browser
Inspection". You can then f12 to open the standard chrome dev tools.

## Project Structure

- `/packages` - Each folder here represents a self-contained Node module.
- `/packages/common` - Helper functions that are used throughout all packages.
- `/packages/tgui/index.ts` - Application entry point.
- `/packages/tgui/interfaces` - Actual in-game interfaces.
- `/packages/tgui/layouts` - Root level UI components, that affect the final
  look and feel of the browser window. These hold various window elements, like
  the titlebar and resize handlers, and control the UI theme.
- `/packages/tgui/routes.ts` - This is where tgui decides which interface to
  pull and render.
- `/packages/tgui/styles/main.scss` - CSS entry point.
- `/packages/tgui/styles/functions.scss` - Useful SASS functions. Stuff like
  `lighten`, `darken`, `luminance` are defined here.
- `/packages/tgui/styles/atomic` - Atomic CSS classes. These are very simple,
  tiny, reusable CSS classes which you can use and combine to change appearance
  of your elements. Keep them small.
- `/packages/tgui/styles/interfaces` - Custom stylesheets for your interfaces.
  Add stylesheets here if you really need a fine control over your UI styles.
- `/packages/tgui/styles/layouts` - Layout-related styles.
- `/packages/tgui/styles/themes` - Contains themes that you can use in tgui.
  Each theme must be registered in `/packages/tgui/index.ts` file.

## License

Source code is covered by /tg/station's parent license - **AGPL-3.0** (see the
main [README](../README.md)), unless otherwise indicated.

Some files are annotated with a copyright header, which explicitly states the
copyright holder and license of the file. Most of the core tgui source code is
available under the **MIT** license.

The Authors retain all copyright to their respective work here submitted.
